h2. Usage

Get a MapQuest API key, and store in your app under MAPQUEST_KEY
<pre>MAPQUEST_KEY = 'your_api_key'</pre>

<pre>directions = MapQuestDirections.new(origin, destination)</pre>
where _origin_ and _destination_ are strings of addresses or places that MapQuest can find an address for.  Example: "816 Meridian St., 37207"

Get drive time or distance of whole trip
<pre>
drive_time_in_minutes = directions.drive_time_in_minutes
distance_in_miles = directions.distance_in_miles
</pre>

Get the XML MapQuest returns with every turn, or the API call URL
<pre>
xml = directions.xml  
xml_call = directions.xml_call
</pre>

h3. Error situations

<pre>directions.status</pre> shows you the status code returned by MapQuest.  0 means worked.  Other codes (500, 403) mean problem.

If MapQuest can't recognize your places or gives an error, the distance_in_miles and drive_time_in_minutes will each return 0.  You can call <pre>directions.status</pre> and it should tell you a number code for the problem.  You can call <pre>directions.xml</pre> to read the full text.

h2. Installation

h3. gem

rails 2.3
# gem install mapquest_directions
# add config.gem "mapquest_directions" to your environment.rb file

rails 3.0
# gem 'mapquest_directions' in your Gemfile
# <pre>bundle install</pre> from command line

h3. Rails plugin

Rails 2.3
<pre>script/plugin install git://github.com/joshcrews/mapquest-directions-ruby.git</pre>

Rails 3.0
<pre>rails plugin install git://github.com/joshcrews/mapquest-directions-ruby.git</pre>

h3. Compatibility

Tested on Rails 2.3.8

Not yet tested on Rails 3.  It probably is Rails 3 compatible, because it's just a single class with a few methods.  It's probably compatible with every ruby project ever.

h3. MapQuest maps API key

You'll need a MapQuest Map API key

http://developer.mapquest.com/

Include it as the constant MAPQUEST_KEY in an app configuration file (environment.rb, config/initializers/api_keys.rb)

h3. Need turn-by-turn directions?

Not yet included in this gem, but you can do it with nokogiri to parse the XML that comes back when you do
<pre>MapQuestDirections.new(origin, destination).xml</pre>
And then nokogiri can cycle through each <maneuver> and you can pick out what you need.

h2. License

Anyone can use this code in any way.

